Mobile App Proposal: WagChangeAll 
Prepared by: Jean Ivann P. Comia  
Target Region: Philippine Domestic Motorcycle Market 
  
1. Executive Summary  
WagChangeAll is a motorcycle maintenance tracker app specifically tailored for the Philippine Domestic 
Motorcycle Market in which conditions are far more varied and extreme as compared to their 
international counterparts due to unpredictable weather and extreme variations in environmental 
conditions. Through Pre-emptive maintenance measures made possible by this application, 
WagChangeAll seeks to minimize mechanical, electrical, and operational failures that occur to 
motorcycle riders in the Philippines that will translate to lower emissions figures, lower maintenance 
costs, better fuel economy, and safer roads due to the lessening of accidents. 
2. Problem Statement  
● For Motorcycle riders: Unexpected part failures can lead to accidents, unexpected financial 
expenditures, and legal issues to relevant road laws. 
● For Motorcycle Owners: Financial loss due to increased depreciation directly caused due to 
improper maintenance measures.  
● For Motorcycle Mechanics and Parts vendors: Difficulties diagnosing customer vehicles due to 
lax recordkeeping and lack of vehicle specific quirks, therefore resulting in the additional 
expenditures in human resources and lost revenue due to purchase returns stemming from 
part/diagnosis mismatch. 
3. Proposed Solution  
The solution is a single, local application that handles tracking, logging, and recording of events done to 
the user’s motorcycle. The app will provide either automated tracking of motorcycle travel distance 
through GPS, or through user input of existing odometer data. It will also provide maintenance interval 
estimations based on official published manuals in conjunction with recorded part life cycles and 
community feedback. 
4. Target Audience  
● Primary: Motorcycle Riders.  
● Secondary: Motorcycle owners that do not ride their vehicles (fleet management etc.).  
● Tertiary: Mechanics and Parts vendors to have.  
5. Key Features & Functionality  
• Maintenance Log — services, parts, costs, photos. 
Records parts installed, services done, costs needed for purchases and installation, and 
pictures of the parts involved. 
 
• Odometer Tracking — GPS or manual entry. 
A necessary feature to accurately gauge maintenance and part lifetimes via distance 
tracking, it can be done through manual or automated entry. 
 
• Service Reminders — time/distance alerts. 
A user can opt into in-app alerts or notifications for their service intervals before even 
reaching critical periods of their vehicle parts. 
 
• Fuel Tracker — km/L and cost trends. 
A fuel milage tracker will also be available as sudden drops in fuel economy can indicate 
a failing part in the motorcycle. 
 
• Predictive Rules — manual-based + community adjustments. 
Through officially published manufacturer documentation and actual community 
feedback, preventative maintenance is more accurate and timelier as compared to 
generalized advice. 
 
• Mechanic Summary — shareable service PDF. 
This will show customer vehicle history, add service notes, and push recommended parts 
lists. 
 
6. Tech Stack  
• Mobile: Kotlin Android app with local Room DB. 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Success Metrics (KPIs)  
• Predictive Maintenance Accuracy: Proportion of model recommendations that correctly 
anticipate a fault or needed service. 
• Average Cost Saved per User: Estimated yearly maintenance cost reduction per user compared 
to baseline behavior. 
• Fuel Economy Improvement: Average percentage increase in km/L after users follow app 
recommendations. 
• Crash/Breakdown Reduction (self‑reported): Percent decrease in user‑reported breakdowns or 
roadside incidents over time. 
 
